Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain a horror,
mystery, and sci-fi film called "Black Box."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Nolan Wright, a photographer, struggles to
remember anything about his life after a
fatal car accident that caused severe
damage to his brain. Unfortunately,
the accident had also claimed the life of his
wife, Rachel. As a result, his young daughter,
Ava, has to work hard to remind him of things
he used to do and the people he once knew.
To recover his memories, he watches a video
of himself when he first held Ava. He then
flips through a photo album and sees pictures
of his family, but nothing comes back to him.
Feeling discouraged, he tosses
the album away and gives up.
He tries to get up from the couch, but suddenly,
a mysterious figure holds him down and chokes him.
As he struggles to break free, Ava
calls out to him and wakes him up.
Ava tells him they have to leave the house soon
if he wants to show up on time to his appointment.
As he cleans up, Ava shows him a picture of
a woman to check if he remembers her name.
When he says "Karen," Ava corrects her and
tells him that it's "Cathy." Nolan recalls
that Cathy has been her boss for 12 years, and
he was the lead photographer in their office.
As he grabs his phone from the desk, Nolan hears
a voice message from the office of Dr. Brooks
asking him if he wants to participate
in a cognitive research study.
He ignores the call and
heads out the door with Ava.
When they arrive at Ava's school, she
asks him to try their secret handshake.
When he makes a mistake, Ava assures
him that he'll remember it again.
Nolan soon meets with Cathy at the office of
the Southern Texas Chronicle to find out if
he can get his job back. However, when
Nolan starts showing her work samples,
Cathy interrupts him and says that
the publisher refuses to hire him.
Furthermore, she points out that his new photos
do not have the same quality as his past work.
Nolan heads back to the car in dismay and goes to
the hospital to see his friend Dr. Gary Yeboah.
Gary offers Nolan some money after hearing
that his former publisher turned him down,
but Nolan refuses. Gary notices Nolan's
bandaged hand and asks him what happened.
Nolan says that he punched a wall in
frustration. Gary hints that it's not
like Nolan to do that at all, noting that
he's never seen him lose his temper before.
Nolan's phone rings, and he sees
that it's a call from another doctor.
Gary tells him to consider Dr. Brooks'
offer, noting that she's one of the
leading researchers in her field even
though her studies sound a bit risky.
They both go to Dr. Brooks' office, but
Gary leaves Nolan behind to do his rounds.
Inside the office, Dr. Brooks goes over the
details about Nolan's accident and notes that
he has recovered quite well. However, the Doctor
informs him that the pathways to his memory have
not been totally corrupted and suggests that
he try undergoing hypnosis to recover them.
Nolan agrees, so Dr. Brooks immediately
prepares him for the session.
After falling into a trance, Nolan soon finds
himself in the dark, hearing only the ticking of a
watch and a strange cracking sound. In just a few
moments, a hand suddenly grabs Nolan's shoulder,
causing him to jump up from the sofa.
As the Doctor tries to calm him down,
Nolan tells her that he had similar
experiences in his nightmares.
Dr. Brooks explains that hypnosis
allows him to access his subconscious,
but patients don't usually see
anything until after a few sessions.
She assures Nolan that his memories
are still hidden in his mind,
and she can recover them with her therapies. Nolan
leaves her office, saying he'll think about it.
Ava waits for Nolan at the school, but her father
had forgotten to pick her up, so a school official
takes her home. When she arrives, she ignores her
father and goes straight to her room. The school
official warns Nolan that she will have to contact
child services if he forgets to pick up Ava again.
Back at the hospital, Dr. Brooks explains
that she wants to try using a device she
calls the "black box," which will allow him to
experience his memories as if he is dreaming.
Before the start of the session, Dr. Brooks tells
Nolan that he needs to imagine himself
in a safe room that only he can enter.
Then, he undergoes hypnosis with the new
device and soon finds himself in a bedroom.
The Doctor assures Nolan that nothing can harm
him in his safe room as long as he stays there,
but she warns him not to open the door because
she won't bring him back once he leaves. She then
instructs Nolan to imagine an analog watch, which
he can use to access key memories in his mind.
Pushing the crown will take him to one
of his memories. Turning the knob forward
will allow him to go to the next one while
turning it backward will let him go back.
Pushing the crown in will take
him back to his safe room.
Upon pushing the crown, he is
taken back to his wedding day.
He watches as the bride approaches him, but
her face is blurred when he lifts the veil.
He looks around to find that the faces of other
people are blurred too. In the back, he notices
a man with contorted limbs approaching him. When
the man reaches him, he wakes up from the session.
When he tells Dr. Brooks about the
contorted person, she says that it
could be his brain trying to keep him from
remembering to protect him from the trauma.
At home, Nolan looks at the pictures of Rachel
on his phone and sees an image of his wedding,
which was held outdoors, not inside a church.
He puts his phone down and notices a chopstick
on the floor. As Nolan twirls it around in his
hand, he remembers eating sushi. The next day,
he takes Ava to a sushi bar and tells her that
he once brought her there when she was three.
Later on, he goes to Dr. Brooks' lab for another
session and tells her that she took Ava to a sushi
bar called Nise. The Doctor says that she's
envious because she loves that restaurant too.
As they prepare for another session, Nolan
asks whether he would recover naturally if
they stop the therapy. She tells Nolan that he's
suffering from a condition called prosopagnosia,
which causes the blurring of
the faces. Dr. Brooks tells him
to try longer sessions until they get to a
point when he would see the faces clearly.
She advises him to say, "I run my mind it doesn't
run me" when he encounters the contorted man.
When Nolan gets to the safe room, he pushes the
crown and finds himself in a bedroom holding a
broken hanger. He hears an infant crying on the
baby monitor, so he goes into the next room to
console her. Nolan looks at the baby and sees
that her face is blurred. When he looks outside,
he notices that he's not in his house. He then
hears a lady sobbing in another room and follows
her voice until he reaches the room. When the
woman turns to him, her face is blurred as well.
Nolan notices that she has bruises on her
arm, suggesting that she had been beaten.
He suddenly hears cracking sounds and sees the
contorted man climbing out of the baby's crib.
He starts repeating the sentence that Dr. Brooks
told him. Despite this, the man continues to crawl
toward him until he grabs Nolan by the neck.
When Nolan wakes up, he tells the Doctor that
the contorted man had choked him. Dr. Brooks
surmises that Nolan must be getting closer
to recovering his memories because his mind
is trying hard to keep him from remembering.
Nolan noted that he was in an apartment
that seemed familiar to him, and yet,
he and Rachel had always lived in their
current home since they got married.
Nolan visits Gary and asks him if he ever
got into a physical fight with Rachel.
Gary assures him that he never hurt his wife
because he would hear about it from Rachel if
something serious had happened. When Nolan
mentions the apartment, Gary says it could
be a hallucination, and his mind may have mixed
up a few things due to his stressful situation.
While waiting for Ava at school, he starts looking
up the apartment he saw in his memory and decides
to find the building. While driving around, he
starts recognizing the area and parks the car.
He leaves Ava behind, but she calls out to him
when the car door locks, so he takes her with him.
Inside the building, he sees the dents on
the stairs and recalls a man tumbling down.
On the second floor, he comes across
a door that seems familiar to him.
He knocks on the door, and a little girl opens it.
He asks to see the girl's mother, but he decides
to go inside and take a peek before the child
could call her. When he enters the living room,
he sees the mother getting up from the sofa.
Nolan apologizes and walks out of the apartment.
Nolan revisits Gary and gives him the address
of the apartment so he could investigate.
Gary writes the address down on his hand.
Nolan suspects that he had an affair,
but Gary assures him that
he wouldn't do such a thing.
Nolan goes back for another session with
Dr. Brooks. Once inside the black box,
he gets back to the wedding, where the contorted
man appears again. Nolan tries ignoring the man,
but he keeps getting closer until he
finally reaches Nolan and hits his face.
Instead of waking up, he goes back to the safe
room and turns the crown. He turns up at the
apartment and goes straight to the room where he
saw the crying woman. When the contorted man shows
up, Nolan knocks him down by kicking him. Nolan
turns the crown on the watch again and ends up in
a hospital bed with extensive injuries. He sees a
woman watching over him, but her face is blurred.
Nolan looks at the woman again, and this time, her
face becomes clear. When he turns the crown on the
watch to go back to the apartment, he discovers
that the crying woman was the same lady watching
him at the hospital. Nolan turns the crown to go
back to the wedding and sees the same woman when
he lifts the veil. He then remembers that she is
also the mother of the child in the apartment.
When he gets back to the safe room, he realizes
that he has the memories of another man.
When he looks out the window, he sees a different
face in the reflection. He realizes that he's not
Nolan and starts recalling the day he proposed to
his wife and the time he brought their daughter to
a sushi bar. Sitting next to him at the restaurant
was Dr. Brooks, whom he recognizes as his mother.
Dr. Brooks hears him calling her "mom" and
realizes that her son Thomas has finally recovered
his memories. She explains that Thomas had slipped
down the stairs and was taken to the hospital,
but it was already too late when they got there.
So Dr. Brooks downloaded all of Thomas' data
from the hospital's servers and waited until she
could upload his consciousness to another patient.
She tells Thomas that he's been gone for two
years. She recounted that when she transferred her
consciousness into Nolan's brain, she knew that
her black box had worked when he grabbed her hand.
However, his memory was not fully intact, and his
brain was still adjusting, so she didn't force
him to remember. After Thomas failed to recover
his memory on his own, she decided to invite him
back to her lab and use the black box. The Doctor
then shows him a picture of his daughter, Ashley,
and tells him that he now has
another chance to do things right.
He gets out of the hospital and
fetches Ava from the school.
He tells Ava that he wants to drop her off
at Gary's place for a few days because it's
not safe to be with him. Ava starts worrying
about how he'll get through a day without her,
but when she raises her concerns,
he gets annoyed and snaps at her.
When they arrive at Gary's house, Ava grabs
his hand and writes something on his palm.
Gary offers to let him stay at his place, but
Thomas insists on going back home on his own.
So Thomas drives away with tears flowing from his
eyes. When he gets to the corner of the street,
he looks at his palms to see Ava's message,
which reads, "Don't forget about me."
Thomas goes to the apartment to see Miranda,
but she only recognizes him as the stranger
who walked into her living room uninvited the
other day. She threatens to call the police,
so Thomas tells her that he went to school
with her husband, but they fell apart.
Miranda hears Ashley ask about dinner, so she
tells Thomas that she has to prepare her something
to eat. Thomas asks for another moment with
her, so she hesitantly invites him inside their
apartment. Once inside, Thomas asks her if she
remembers Dr. Brooks' studies about restoring
someone's consciousness using their brainwaves.
He tells Miranda that the experiments worked
and reveals that he's Thomas, her husband. She
frowns in disbelief and asks Thomas to leave.
Thomas starts telling her about
details that only he would know.
For example, he points out that he decided
to keep the wallpaper in the apartment even
though she hates it because he wants it to
remind him that he wants to move out someday.
Thomas explains that the man who used to be living
in his new body was already brain-dead. He says he
intends to use the opportunity to make things
right again and promises not to hurt her again.
However, his attitude soon changes when he notices
that Miranda has removed all his pictures in the
apartment. Thomas grows furious, wondering why
Miranda has removed any trace of him in her life.
Miranda asks him to leave, but he gets
mad and tries to go to Ashley's bedroom.
Miranda tries to stop him, prompting
him to shove her against the wall.
He goes ahead and enters the bedroom,
where he sees Ashley doing her homework.
Ashley, who's wearing headphones, is oblivious
to what's happening outside her room.
As Thomas watches his daughter, Miranda approaches
him from behind and hits him in the head.
Thomas wakes up to find himself in front of Ava
just outside Gary's house, bleeding from the blow
to his head. He runs to his car and sees the
contorted man in the reflection on the window.
Thomas drives away and visits his mom to
ask her how he ended up outside Gary's
house with no recollection of what
happened. Dr. Brooks suggests that
his mind took him to a place where he
felt safe in an attempt to protect him.
Meanwhile, Gary sees the address of
Miranda's apartment in his hand and
starts looking it up on the internet. He
learns from a news article that Thomas
had died there two years ago and figures
out that he was related to Dr. Brooks.
Dr. Brooks prepares Thomas for
another session inside the black box,
telling him that he'll get better
when he gets rid of the contorted man.
She advises him to treat the man
like a virus that he has to kill.
Inside the black box, Thomas is
taken back to their apartment.
As he looks at the pictures on the
wall, he hears a banging on the door.
After unlocking the door, the contorted man enters
and stands up slowly to straighten himself up.
When the contorted man turns around,
Thomas discovers that he is Nolan.
Thomas lets Dr. Brooks know
about what he found out,
but she tells him that the manifestation
is just his mind trying to hold him back.
Thomas starts beating Nolan up, but
he wouldn't fight back. He then grabs
a knife and tells his mother to begin the
countdown to take him out of the black box.
As he gets ready to stab Nolan, he
hears Ava's voice asking for her dad.
Ava arrives in the lab with Gary
and tries to wake up her father.
Despite his weakened condition, Nolan tries to
respond, whispering that he's there for Ava.
Thomas becomes convinced that Nolan is still
alive, but his mom insists that it's not him.
He tries to stab Nolan again, but this time,
he hears Ashley's voice asking him to stop.
He recalls that Ashley was begging him
to stop while he was beating up Miranda.
Ashley tries to help her mom by pushing
Thomas away, but he kicks her forcibly.
Miranda shoves Thomas to protect Ashley,
causing him to fall down the stairs.
Thomas starts feeling remorseful and lets go of
Nolan. He looks at his pictures on the wall and
heads to the door to leave the safe room. As
the alarm on the E.E.G monitor sounds off, Dr.
Brooks starts the countdown and removes the black
box from the patient's head. She holds his hand,
thinking that he's Thomas, but as he wakes up, he
calls Ava over and does their secret handshake.
In the black box, Thomas sits alone in the
dark, feeling regretful about what he's done
to his wife and daughter. Dr. Brooks tries
to put Nolan back in the black box again,
but Gary stops her and reminds her
of the oath she took as a physician.
Then, as he leaves the lab, Gary
sees the black box and dismantles it.
Nolan gets back home feeling sorrowful over the
time he lost when he was trapped in his mind.
When Ava comes over to his room, Nolan
tries to make up for the lost time and
tells her to grab a book so he can read to her.
After being dismissed from her position,
Dr. Brooks sits in front of the computer
at home and tries to activate the black
box again. She writes a few lines of
code then loads Thomas' brainwave file
from a backup folder on her hard drive.
She peeks into the box, then
calls out to Thomas and smiles.